All the ideas below draw on the elite profile dataset of Hong Kong scraped from webb-site.com, the website of David Webb, an activist investor based in Hong Kong since the 1990s. The website consists of individual profiles of key figures in Hong Kong mainly since the 1970s, as well as some basic informations of key organizations in Hong Kong. 

Research Idea 1

The first idea is about the logics of political co-optation. I define co-optation as being recruited (but not elected) into any part of public sectors, including: (1) government agencies, (2) quasi-government corporation/public institutions, and (3) temporary consultative committee established by the government. I would like to see if there are changes of the logic from different periods (pre-handover from the 1970s to 1997, early-post handover from 1997 to 2010, and late-post handover from 2010 to 2021). I expect that three individual attributes would be the key determinants of co-optation: (1) ethnicity (expats, local Chinese, mainland Chinese), (2) business ties (affiliation with listed company boards), and (3) pro-China organizations (including parties, township associations, Political Consultative Committee of PR China etc). 

Research idea 2

The second idea is about the increase influence of red (mainland China) capital in the stock market of Hong Kong. I would like to observe so by looking at three things: 1. number of IPOs from mainland China processed in Hong Kong, 2. number of mainland Chinese in the boards (can be observed by how their names are romanized: local and mainland Chinese were done in different system) 3. total net values of companies where domiciles are China. 

Research idea 3

The third idea is about how political ties affect company performance. I hypothesized that listed companies containing board members with dense political ties (having seats in different types of organizations e.g. legislative council, executive council, or consultative committee) would perform better, since it symbolized that the company has better connections with the government, and therefore have more information about the market. 